README.md, before:

![link](https://img.shields.io/badge/API-Spigot-blue) ![link](https://img.shields.io/badge/Version-1.17+-yellow)

# CraftStack

CraftStack is a lightweight library that simplifies raw item definition in code and loading from YAML
configuration files with the Spigot API.

## How it works

The library is built on a component-based system where each item is defined by a base material and a
set of independent components (such as name, lore, etc.).

### Define items in code

To create a new item, use the static method `Item#create(Material)` by providing a base `Material`.

```java
Item item = Item.create(Material.DIAMOND);
```

You can then attach components (e.g. properties) to the item using the methods `Item#addComponent(ItemComponent)` or
`Item#addComponents(ItemComponent[])`.

```java
Item item = Item.create(Material.DIAMOND);
item.addComponent(new DisplayName("name"));
item.addComponent(new Lore("line 1", "line 2", "line 3"));
item.addComponent(new CustomModelData(1));
```

Methods can also be **chained** to make the code more concise.

```java
Item item = Item.create(Material.DIAMOND)
        .addComponent(new DisplayName("name"))
        .addComponent(new Lore("line 1", "line 2", "line 3"))
        .addComponent(new CustomModelData(1));
```

### Define items in YAML files

Items can be defined and loaded from YAML files. Each item must be declared in its own section.

```yaml
item:
  # Item type.
  # See https://hub.spigotmc.org/javadocs/spigot/org/bukkit/Material.html.
  type: "DIAMOND"
  # Display name.
  display-name: "&6Display name"
  # Lore.
  lore:
    - "line 1"
    - "line 2"
    - "line 3"
  # Custom model data.
  custom-model-data: 1
  # Amount.
  amount: 1
  # Damage / Durability
  damage: 0
```

Items can then be loaded programmatically using the `ItemLoaderService` interface. A default instance of this service
can be created from the `CraftStack` class.

```java
ItemLoaderService<ConfigurationSection> service = CraftStack.getDefaultItemLoader();
```

The methods `ItemLoaderService#load(ConfigurationSection)` and `ItemLoaderService#loadAll(ConfigurationSection)` can
then be used to load a single or multiple items.

```java
ConfigurationSection section = ... ;

ItemLoaderService<ConfigurationSection> service = CraftStack.getDefaultItemLoader();

try {
    List<Item> items = service.loadAll(section);
} catch (ItemException exception) {
    exception.printStackTrace();
}
```

_Note: An `ItemException` might be thrown if an item is defined with an invalid property._

### Conversion to an ItemStack

An `Item` can be converted to an `ItemStack` using the `Item#build()` method.

```java
ItemStack diamond = Item.create(Material.DIAMOND)
        .addComponent(new DisplayName("name"))
        .addComponent(new Lore("line 1", "line 2", "line 3"))
        .addComponent(new CustomModelData(1))
        .build();
```

The library also supports placeholder replacement. To use this feature, create a `PlaceholderContext` and pass it to the
`Item#build(PlaceholderContext)` method.

```java
// Create and populate a map with placeholders and their corresponding values.
Map<Placeholder, String> placeholders = new HashMap<>();

// Required if you want to support PlaceholderAPI.
Player player = ... ;

PlaceholderContext context = new PlaceholderContext.Builder()
        // Provide your placeholders.
        .withDefaultParser(placeholders)
        // Optional: add this line to support PlaceholderAPI.
        .withParser(new PlaceholderApiParser(player))
        .build();

ItemStack diamond = Item.create(Material.DIAMOND)
        .addComponent(new DisplayName("%name%"))
        .addComponent(new Lore("%placeholder%", "%placeholder%", "%placeholder%"))
        .addComponent(new CustomModelData(1))
        // Build the item with the placeholder context.
        .build(context);
```

## Available components

| **Component**       | **Constructors**                       | Version | Comment                              |
|---------------------|----------------------------------------|---------|--------------------------------------|
| Display Name        | `DisplayName(String)`                  | all     | Support for colors and placeholders. |
| Lore                | `Lore(List<String>)`, `Lore(String[])` | all     | Support for colors and placeholders. |
| Custom Model Data   | `CustomModelData(int)`                 | all     | -                                    |
| Amount              | `Amount(int)`                          | all     | -                                    |
| Damage / Durability | `Damage(int)`                          | all     | -                                    |
| Glowing             | `Glow()`                               | < 1.21  | Add a glowing effect to the item.    |
| Glint               | `Glint(boolean)`                       | >= 1.21 | Toggle the glint effect on the item. |
| Hide Tooltip        | `HideTooltip()`                        | >= 1.21 | -                                    |
| Tooltip Style       | `TooltipStyle(NamespacedKey)`          | >= 1.21 | -                                    |
| Item Model          | `ItemModel(NamespacedKey)`             | >= 1.21 | -                                    |

_Note: More properties will be supported as needed. Feel free to contribute and add support for new properties!_

Commit message:

docs: moved the "Available components" content to a wiki page

README.md, after:

![link](https://img.shields.io/badge/API-Spigot-blue) ![link](https://img.shields.io/badge/Version-1.17+-yellow)

# CraftStack

CraftStack is a lightweight library that simplifies raw item definition in code and loading from YAML
configuration files with the Spigot API.

## How it works

The library is built on a component-based system where each item is defined by a base material and a
set of independent components (such as name, lore, etc.).

### Define items in code

To create a new item, use the static method `Item#create(Material)` by providing a base `Material`.

```java
Item item = Item.create(Material.DIAMOND);
```

You can then attach components (e.g. properties) to the item using the methods `Item#addComponent(ItemComponent)` or
`Item#addComponents(ItemComponent[])`.

```java
Item item = Item.create(Material.DIAMOND);
item.addComponent(new DisplayName("name"));
item.addComponent(new Lore("line 1", "line 2", "line 3"));
item.addComponent(new CustomModelData(1));
```

Methods can also be **chained** to make the code more concise.

```java
Item item = Item.create(Material.DIAMOND)
        .addComponent(new DisplayName("name"))
        .addComponent(new Lore("line 1", "line 2", "line 3"))
        .addComponent(new CustomModelData(1));
```

### Define items in YAML files

Items can be defined and loaded from YAML files. Each item must be declared in its own section.

```yaml
item:
  # Item type.
  # See https://hub.spigotmc.org/javadocs/spigot/org/bukkit/Material.html.
  type: "DIAMOND"
  # Display name.
  display-name: "&6Display name"
  # Lore.
  lore:
    - "line 1"
    - "line 2"
    - "line 3"
  # Custom model data.
  custom-model-data: 1
  # Amount.
  amount: 1
  # Damage / Durability
  damage: 0
```

Items can then be loaded programmatically using the `ItemLoaderService` interface. A default instance of this service
can be created from the `CraftStack` class.

```java
ItemLoaderService<ConfigurationSection> service = CraftStack.getDefaultItemLoader();
```

The methods `ItemLoaderService#load(ConfigurationSection)` and `ItemLoaderService#loadAll(ConfigurationSection)` can
then be used to load a single or multiple items.

```java
ConfigurationSection section = ... ;

ItemLoaderService<ConfigurationSection> service = CraftStack.getDefaultItemLoader();

try {
    List<Item> items = service.loadAll(section);
} catch (ItemException exception) {
    exception.printStackTrace();
}
```

_Note: An `ItemException` might be thrown if an item is defined with an invalid property._

### Conversion to an ItemStack

An `Item` can be converted to an `ItemStack` using the `Item#build()` method.

```java
ItemStack diamond = Item.create(Material.DIAMOND)
        .addComponent(new DisplayName("name"))
        .addComponent(new Lore("line 1", "line 2", "line 3"))
        .addComponent(new CustomModelData(1))
        .build();
```

The library also supports placeholder replacement. To use this feature, create a `PlaceholderContext` and pass it to the
`Item#build(PlaceholderContext)` method.

```java
// Create and populate a map with placeholders and their corresponding values.
Map<Placeholder, String> placeholders = new HashMap<>();

// Required if you want to support PlaceholderAPI.
Player player = ... ;

PlaceholderContext context = new PlaceholderContext.Builder()
        // Provide your placeholders.
        .withDefaultParser(placeholders)
        // Optional: add this line to support PlaceholderAPI.
        .withParser(new PlaceholderApiParser(player))
        .build();

ItemStack diamond = Item.create(Material.DIAMOND)
        .addComponent(new DisplayName("%name%"))
        .addComponent(new Lore("%placeholder%", "%placeholder%", "%placeholder%"))
        .addComponent(new CustomModelData(1))
        // Build the item with the placeholder context.
        .build(context);
```

## Available components

You can find all the currently available item components with example of configuration by visiting the [wiki](https://github.com/Syr0ws/CraftStack/wiki/Item-components) of the project.

_Note: More properties will be supported as needed. Feel free to contribute and add support for new properties!_
